doc/api_endpoints.md, before:

# API endpoints

This documents all of the endpoints provided by the backscope server.
All of them return JSON data with the specified keys and values. Also, every
endpoint includes the key 'id' with value the OEIS id for the sake of verifying
that it is the data as requested. In case of an OEIS_ID that does not match
anything in the OEIS, an error string is returned. Note that the angle brackets
<> in the URLS indicate where subsitutions are made; they should not be present
in the URLs actually used.

Also note that if any of the requests are made for a given sequence, then the
back end will in the background obtain all of the data necessary to respond
to all of the endpoints for future requests concerning that sequence without
going back to the OEIS. Note that this background work may take an appreciable
amount of time, especially if the sequence has lots of references within the
OEIS.

### URL: `api/get_oeis_values/<OEIS_ID>/<COUNT>`

This is the most rapid endpoint, it makes at most one request to the OEIS server
(and only if the OEIS_ID has not previously been requested). If you are running
the server to test it on your local host, a full URL would be
http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/get_oeis_values/A000030/50 which will return the
first digits of the numbers 0 through 49.

#### Key: name

A string giving the official name of the OEIS sequence with id OEIS_ID,
if already known to backscope, or a temporary name if not.

#### Key: values

An array of _strings_ (of digits) giving the first COUNT values of the sequence
with id OEIS_ID. Since some sequence values correspond to extremely large
numbers, strings are used to avoid the limitations of any particular numeric
datatype.

### URL: `api/get_oeis_name_and_values/<OEIS_ID>`

This one is potentially a bit slower than the above URL, as it may make
an extra request to ensure that the name is correct. If you are running
the server on your local host, a full URL would be
http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/get_oeis_name_and_values/A003173, which will
return the nine Heegner numbers and their full name as an OEIS
sequence (basically, the name describes what a Heegner number is).

#### Key: name

A string giving the official name of the OEIS sequence with id OEIS_ID.

#### Key: values

An array of strings (of digits) giving all values of the sequence with id
OEIS_ID known to the OEIS.

### URL: `api/get_oeis_metadata/<OEIS_ID>`

A potentially very slow endpoint (if the sequence is unknown to the backscope);
may make hundreds of requests to the OEIS to generate all of the back
references to the sequence. If you are running the server on your local
machine, a full URL would be
http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/get_oeis_metadata/A028444 which will show the full
name of the Busy Beaver sequence, the one text line of sequences it
references, and the IDs of the ten sequences that refer to it.

#### Key: name

A string giving the official name of the OEIS sequence with id OEIS_ID.

#### Key: xrefs

A string which is the concatenation (separated by newlines) of all of the
OEIS text "xref" records for the sequence with id OEIS_ID.

#### Key: backrefs

An array of strings giving all OEIS ids that mention the given OEIS_ID.

### URL: `api/get_oeis_header/<OEIS_ID>`

A lighter-weight endpoint that provides some summary information about the
sequence designated by <OEIS_ID>. If you are running the server on your local
machine, a full URL would be http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/get_oeis_header/A028444
which will show the full name of the Busy Beaver sequence, the first and last
indices of the sequence as avaialable through oeis.org, and the chunk size that
will be used if values are requested in chunks.

#### Key: name

A string giving the official name of the OEIS sequence with id OEIS_ID.

#### Key: first

The index of the first entry in the sequence available for download from
oeis.org.

#### Key: last

The index of the first entry in the sequence available for download from
oeis.org.

#### Key: chunk_size

The maximum number of entries provided per chunk if chunked access is used
to download entries for this sequence.

### URL: `api/get_oeis_factors/<OEIS_ID>/<COUNT>`

This could take a long time. It internally does everything that the endpoint
`get_oeis_metadata` does, and then once the result is stored in the database
it proceeds to factor the first `<COUNT>` terms of the sequence (or all of them
if there are not that many). If you are running the server to test it on your
local host, a full URL would be
http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/get_oeis_factors/A006862/50 which will return the
factorizations of 1 + the product of the first n primes, for n < 50. The
first 42 terms will be factored and larger terms will return `no_fac` (since
they are deemed too large to factor in a reasonable time).

The factorization is performed by pari: `https://pari.math.u-bordeaux.fr/`.
Previous factorization requests are cached in the database for efficiency.
Returns the following data:

#### Key: name

A string giving the official name of the OEIS sequence with id OEIS_ID.

#### Key: factors

An array whose indices match the indices of the values of the sequence.
The format of each entry is a string of the form

`[[p,e],[q,f],...]`

where each entry `[p,e]` represents a factor of the prime p to the power e. If
an integer is negative, `[-1,1]` is included. If the integer is 1, the
factorization is `[]` (empty). If the integer is 0, the factorization
is `[[0,1]]`. Any successful factorization has the property that if you
multiply 1 times the product of `p^e` for all `[p,e]` in the array, you
obtain the original value. This format is essentially that supported by pari.
If the integer exceeds 2^200, the factorization is not attempted and
the factorization is stored as `no_fac`.

### URL: `api/get_commit`

Returns the most recent git hash of the currently running version of
backscope.  If you are running the server on your local
machine, a full URL would be http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/get_commit.

#### Key: short_commit_hash

A string showing the short hash resulting from calling 

```
git rev-parse --short HEAD
```

### URL: `api/search_oeis/<SEARCH_TERM>`

Returns up to ten (id, sequence-name) pairs of sequences matching the
SEARCH_TERM, which should be url encoded if it contains any characters
disallowed in urls. Currently the search criterion is identical to whatever
the OEIS does when you type SEARCH_TERM into its search box. For example,
if you are running the server on your local machine, a full URL would be
http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/search_oeis/germain which gives results concerning
Sophie Germain primes.

#### Key: term

A string giving the search term as supplied.

#### Key: results

An array of results. Each element in the array is a two-element array
of strings. The first entry of each of these arrays is an OEIS id in "Annnnnn"
format, and the second is the OEIS name of the corresponding sequence.

Commit message:

feat: add get_oeis_chunk endpoint

doc/api_endpoints.md, after:

# API endpoints

This documents all of the endpoints provided by the backscope server.
All of them return JSON data with the specified keys and values. Also, every
endpoint includes the key 'id' with value the OEIS id for the sake of verifying
that it is the data as requested. In case of an OEIS_ID that does not match
anything in the OEIS, an error string is returned. Note that the angle brackets
<> in the URLS indicate where subsitutions are made; they should not be present
in the URLs actually used.

Also note that if any of the requests are made for a given sequence, then the
back end will in the background obtain all of the data necessary to respond
to all of the endpoints for future requests concerning that sequence without
going back to the OEIS. Note that this background work may take an appreciable
amount of time, especially if the sequence has lots of references within the
OEIS.

### URL: `api/get_oeis_values/<OEIS_ID>/<COUNT>`

This is the most rapid endpoint, it makes at most one request to the OEIS server
(and only if the OEIS_ID has not previously been requested). If you are running
the server to test it on your local host, a full URL would be
http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/get_oeis_values/A000030/50 which will return the
first digits of the numbers 0 through 49.

#### Key: name

A string giving the official name of the OEIS sequence with id OEIS_ID,
if already known to backscope, or a temporary name if not.

#### Key: values

An array of _strings_ (of digits) giving the first COUNT values of the sequence
with id OEIS_ID. Since some sequence values correspond to extremely large
numbers, strings are used to avoid the limitations of any particular numeric
datatype.

### URL: `api/get_oeis_chunk/<OEIS_ID>/<CHUNK_NUMBER>`

Similar to the `get_oeis_values` endpoint, but allows some level of random
access. Every sequence has a "chunk size" that can be obtained via the
`get_oeis_header` endpoint described below. This endpoint returns (just) the
sequence values in the CHUNK_NUMBERth chunk, in other words, all of the entries
with index no smaller than CHUNK_NUMBER×chunk_size and less than
(CHUNK_NUMBER+1)×(chunk_size). Note that CHUNK_NUMBER is allowed to be negative.

If you are running the server to test it on your local host, a full URL would
be http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/get_oeis_chunk/A000030/1 which will return the
first digits of the numbers 1024 through 2047 (so 976 '1's followed by 48 '2's).

#### Key: name

A string giving the official name of the OEIS sequence with id OEIS_ID,
if already known to backscope, or a temporary name if not.

#### Key: values

An array of _strings_ (of digits) giving the first COUNT values of the sequence
with id OEIS_ID. Since some sequence values correspond to extremely large
numbers, strings are used to avoid the limitations of any particular numeric
datatype.

### URL: `api/get_oeis_name_and_values/<OEIS_ID>`

This one is potentially a bit slower than the above URL, as it may make
an extra request to ensure that the name is correct. If you are running
the server on your local host, a full URL would be
http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/get_oeis_name_and_values/A003173, which will
return the nine Heegner numbers and their full name as an OEIS
sequence (basically, the name describes what a Heegner number is).

#### Key: name

A string giving the official name of the OEIS sequence with id OEIS_ID.

#### Key: values

An array of strings (of digits) giving all values of the sequence with id
OEIS_ID known to the OEIS.

### URL: `api/get_oeis_metadata/<OEIS_ID>`

A potentially very slow endpoint (if the sequence is unknown to the backscope);
may make hundreds of requests to the OEIS to generate all of the back
references to the sequence. If you are running the server on your local
machine, a full URL would be
http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/get_oeis_metadata/A028444 which will show the full
name of the Busy Beaver sequence, the one text line of sequences it
references, and the IDs of the ten sequences that refer to it.

#### Key: name

A string giving the official name of the OEIS sequence with id OEIS_ID.

#### Key: xrefs

A string which is the concatenation (separated by newlines) of all of the
OEIS text "xref" records for the sequence with id OEIS_ID.

#### Key: backrefs

An array of strings giving all OEIS ids that mention the given OEIS_ID.

### URL: `api/get_oeis_header/<OEIS_ID>`

A lighter-weight endpoint that provides some summary information about the
sequence designated by <OEIS_ID>. If you are running the server on your local
machine, a full URL would be http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/get_oeis_header/A028444
which will show the full name of the Busy Beaver sequence, the first and last
indices of the sequence as avaialable through oeis.org, and the chunk size that
will be used if values are requested in chunks.

#### Key: name

A string giving the official name of the OEIS sequence with id OEIS_ID.

#### Key: first

The index of the first entry in the sequence available for download from
oeis.org.

#### Key: last

The index of the first entry in the sequence available for download from
oeis.org.

#### Key: chunk_size

The maximum number of entries provided per chunk if chunked access is used
to download entries for this sequence.

### URL: `api/get_oeis_factors/<OEIS_ID>/<COUNT>`

This could take a long time. It internally does everything that the endpoint
`get_oeis_metadata` does, and then once the result is stored in the database
it proceeds to factor the first `<COUNT>` terms of the sequence (or all of them
if there are not that many). If you are running the server to test it on your
local host, a full URL would be
http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/get_oeis_factors/A006862/50 which will return the
factorizations of 1 + the product of the first n primes, for n < 50. The
first 42 terms will be factored and larger terms will return `no_fac` (since
they are deemed too large to factor in a reasonable time).

The factorization is performed by pari: `https://pari.math.u-bordeaux.fr/`.
Previous factorization requests are cached in the database for efficiency.
Returns the following data:

#### Key: name

A string giving the official name of the OEIS sequence with id OEIS_ID.

#### Key: factors

An array whose indices match the indices of the values of the sequence.
The format of each entry is a string of the form

`[[p,e],[q,f],...]`

where each entry `[p,e]` represents a factor of the prime p to the power e. If
an integer is negative, `[-1,1]` is included. If the integer is 1, the
factorization is `[]` (empty). If the integer is 0, the factorization
is `[[0,1]]`. Any successful factorization has the property that if you
multiply 1 times the product of `p^e` for all `[p,e]` in the array, you
obtain the original value. This format is essentially that supported by pari.
If the integer exceeds 2^200, the factorization is not attempted and
the factorization is stored as `no_fac`.

### URL: `api/get_commit`

Returns the most recent git hash of the currently running version of
backscope.  If you are running the server on your local
machine, a full URL would be http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/get_commit.

#### Key: short_commit_hash

A string showing the short hash resulting from calling 

```
git rev-parse --short HEAD
```

### URL: `api/search_oeis/<SEARCH_TERM>`

Returns up to ten (id, sequence-name) pairs of sequences matching the
SEARCH_TERM, which should be url encoded if it contains any characters
disallowed in urls. Currently the search criterion is identical to whatever
the OEIS does when you type SEARCH_TERM into its search box. For example,
if you are running the server on your local machine, a full URL would be
http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/search_oeis/germain which gives results concerning
Sophie Germain primes.

#### Key: term

A string giving the search term as supplied.

#### Key: results

An array of results. Each element in the array is a two-element array
of strings. The first entry of each of these arrays is an OEIS id in "Annnnnn"
format, and the second is the OEIS name of the corresponding sequence.
